Title: Allstate Identity Protection

----

Keywords: mobile apps, digital strategy, privacy

----

Text: For over 80 years, Allstate has embodied safety and trust in the eyes of American consumers. In order to diversify the company’s portfolio, an internal innovation group explored the data privacy landscape. Consumers ended up craving a service that I co-developed with Sabrina Gagliano: real-time monitoring of breaches that affect your online accounts.  

(image: ideation-goals.png caption: experience goals)

Before diving into ideation, we identified Allstate’s brand values and mapped them to the problem space. This exercise allowed us to set our guiding goals: a key component of successful product/market fit. 

(image: ideation-themes.png caption: adding fidelity & structure)

(image: ideation-journey.png caption: high-level journey map)

As the user experience matured, a number of operational needs arose. These were integrated into the notification process and optimized for low complexity.

(image: ideation-blueprint.png caption: creating an operational plan)

The final prototype mirrored our lean planning: it provided users with transparent updates, clear content, and distinct action items.

(image: initial-notification.png caption: breaking news)

At the first sign of a credible data breach, Allstate would notify customers and establish a voice of expertise. The timeline and language indicated behind-the-scenes work, while a simple watchlist action put the user in control.

(image: detected-breach.png caption: first stage activated)

Breaches typically unfold within a few hours. After gathering enough information on the event’s scope and validity, the breach would enter stage two.

(image: update-notification.png caption: more information uncovered)

(image: timeline-updated.png caption: enhanced content)

The user now had access to a handful of effective damage control techniques. During sensitive events, users could opt-in to full identity protection. 

(image: actions.png caption: specific actions available)

(image: exposed-notification.png caption: user is personally affected)

Finally, after a period of days-to-weeks, Allstate would notify customers whose data was directly identified within the breach. This level of severity served as a capstone of trust, and could be immediately implemented.

(image: matched-breach.png caption: theme changed to red)

If a user chose to update their password, direct links to the appropriate webpages provided a seamless experience.

(image: instagram-login.png caption: direct link to login)

After the concepting period, multiple consumers were extensively interviewed. Each user easily understood the breach process, and they all expressed an emotional connection to the safety of Allstate’s brand.

(image: hypothesis.png caption: a traditional research approach)

(image: notes.png caption: gathering feedback)

(image: watching-out.png caption: the experience resonated with users)

In August of 2018, Allstate purchased InfoArmor for $525 million: a deal that absorbed this innovation project, and one that continues to lead them down the path of digital protection.

Final accountabilities included competitive research, visual concepting, user experience direction, user research, and stakeholder alignment.