Title: Learnmetrics

----

Keywords: branding, education, program delivery 

----

Text: *Key accountabilities: visual concepting, creative direction, brand development, stakeholder alignment, asset implementation*

Connecting educators and administrators with the data that surrounds their students, Learnmetrics required an identity that communicated both this mission and a sense of humanity. 

In the final iteration, a structured graph transformed into physical action. Soft, playful forms invited the viewer to immerse themselves, while dramatic forward motion underscored vision, passion, and progress.

(content-image: exercise-sticky-notes.png description: sticky identities)

Preliminary team exercises included arranging sticky notes with values that corresponded to what individuals perceived Learnmetrics to be, in addition to what the company could and should represent. 

(content-image: exercise-values.png description: personal & organizational values)

### [view the Pinterest board >][1]

(content-image: Pinterest-education-analytics-1.png description: physical environments)

(content-image: Pinterest-detail-1.png description: architectural influence)

Visual research and inspiration drew upon a multitude of sources, spanning architecture, data visualization, and educational iconography. 

(content-image: Pinterest-education-analytics-2.png description: branding & systems)

(content-image: Pinterest-education-analytics-3.png description: assorted data visualizations)

In addition to flowing, organic forms, a focus on simple, constructed components arose. When used in aggregate, these building blocks lent each visual application a sense of energy, synthesis, and precision. 

(content-image: Pinterest-education-analytics-4.png description: modular logo elements)

(content-image: Pinterest-detail-2.png description: multiple data levels)

To gauge existing messaging and avoid any potential branding clashes, the research stage included an assessment of marketplace competitors.

(content-image: Pinterest-education-analytics-6.png description: landscape research)

(content-image: concepts-sketch-1.png description: initial ideation)

Sketching concepts touched upon diverse depictions: network nodes, roots, stylized graphs, and physical books all made appearances. By exploring both literal and conceptual directions, the process could more readily focus on an approach that equally resonated with stakeholders, users, and the public.

(content-image: concepts-sketch-2.png description: humanized networks)

Two narratives began to dominate, one in which the logo communicated the act of data management, and another that expressed the marriage of data with education. The former directly appealed to existing users and professionals, with the latter offering increased accessibility and legibility towards future clients and unaffiliated viewers.

(content-image: concepts-sketch-5.png description: moving information)

(content-image: concepts-sketch-7.png description: human elements)

When attempting to soften the frigidity of complex information, I wondered: should the icon include a literal human, or instead, humanlike attributes?

(content-image: concepts-sketch-9.png description: pencils & graphs)

Having achieved a substantial amount of concepts, work transitioned to the computer: multiple monochrome versions arose alongside a typographic lockup set in Circular. The typeface's precise curvature seamlessly corresponded to the dual identity of data and education. Furthermore, a punchy period heightened impact and embodied the role of a technological challenger.

(content-image: v1-direction-1.png description: monochrome: Cloud Mind, version 1)

(content-image: v1-direction-2.png description: monochrome: Decisive Data, version 1)

(content-image: v1-direction-3.png description: monochrome: Root Nexus, version 1)

(content-image: v1-direction-4.png description: monochrome: Paper & Pies, version 1)

Color applications followed, with palettes that employed slightly-saturated tints of somber hues. Decisive Data began to lean towards illustration, whereas Root Nexus reduced each emotion to the minimal number of components.

(content-image: v2-direction-1.png description: Cloud Mind: version 2)

(content-image: v2-direction-2a.png description: Decisive Data: version 2a, closed)

(content-image: v2-direction-2b.png description: Decisive Data: version 2b, open)

(content-image: v2-direction-3a.png description: Root Nexus: version 2a, nodes)

(content-image: v2-direction-3b.png description: Root Nexus: version 2b, prism)

(content-image: v2-direction-4.png description: Paper & Pies: version 2)

Following a formal presentation, Decisive Data universally resonated with stakeholders. As an intermediary step, revisions concentrated on refined curvatures and experimentation with a color system that responded to individual applications for districts, schools, and vendors.

Due to the extreme approach angle of previous line versions, a simplified graph and revised pencil relationship rectified the existing awkward junctions. 

(content-image: v4-direction-2g.png description: Decisive Data: version 4g, tilt)

As a representative of the playful, illustration-friendly camp, version 4g divided the flowing graph into two segments, thereby highlighting the transformative power of Learnmetrics.

(content-image: detail-v4-direction-2g.png description: detail: version 4g, #2 pencil)

In order to clearly communicate the creative process to remote team members, a progress update document summarized each direction's development, inspiration, and public interpretation.

(content-image: progress-update-1.png description: progress update: Cloud Mind, Decisive Data)

An additional revision leveled the playing field of abstraction versus illustration: white space replaced interior graphs, padding around the pencil increased, and softened edges propagated throughout the form. These edits reduced the rigidity of a stylized tool and lent a heightened level of movement.

(content-image: v4-direction-2m.png description: Decisive Data: version 4m, width)

(content-image: detail-v4-direction-2m.png description: detail: version 4m, writing instrument)

In order to solidify design choices, a final round of directions was presented. Each built upon earlier themes of humanity, structure, and enlightenment, but with the added constraints of an enclosing polygon.

(content-image: v7-direction-5.png description: Honeycomb Portal: version 7)

(content-image: v7-direction-9.png description: Out of the Pencil: version 7)

At this point, the team regrouped to discuss the wordmark's progress and initial impressions. Consensus grew around the general honeycomb shape, yet it lacked the educational identity of Decisive Data. 

Reintroducing an illustrative pencil rectified these concerns, giving humanity to the background stream of fractured data.

Executives immediately identified with both the new iconography and refreshing palette of medium-saturation blues and greens. Graphik, by Christian Schwartz of Commercial Type, replaced Circular as the wordmark's typeface due to an increased selection of weights, optimized rendering, and heightened linearity. 

(content-image: final-wordmark-standard.png description: final wordmark: Honeycomb Clarity, standard background)

(content-image: final-wordmark-alternate-standard.png description: final wordmark: vertical configuration, standard background)

By selectively reversing the application of white, tweaked variants allowed for seamless usage on backgrounds of various excitement levels.

(content-image: final-wordmark-medium.png description: final wordmark: Honeycomb Clarity, medium background)

(content-image: final-wordmark-alternate-medium.png description: final wordmark: vertical configuration, medium background)

(content-image: final-wordmark-dark.png description: final wordmark: Honeycomb Clarity, dark background)

(content-image: final-wordmark-alternate-dark.png description: final wordmark: vertical configuration, dark background)

[1]: https://www.pinterest.com/llizlepiorz/education-analytics