Title: NEXT 2015

----

Keywords: environmental graphics, branding, education

----

Text: Inspired by topography, the *NEXT* 2015 identity expressed both the Corcoran's heritage and optimistic future. Individual paths, drawn from the Sierra Nevada landscape of Mount Corcoran, united in one community. The resemblance to a fingerprint evoked the relationship between identity and creation.

### awards
- Adobe Design Achievement Awards, Semifinalist
- Graphis Design Annual, Silver Award
- HOW International Design Awards, Merit Award
- University & College Designers Association, Award of Excellence

(image: keywords.png caption: affinity diagramming)

Set against the backdrop of a merger between the Corcoran and George Washington University, a group of junior designers framed their conceptual brands with a collective wordmap. 

(image: wordmap.png caption: finalized wordmap)

From three competing options, university stakeholders chose my direction. Lines flowed organically across each structured letter: a synthesis of identities. 

(image: tombstone.png caption: organic forms in classical motifs)

(image: New-York-Ave.png caption: banners at New York Avenue)

(image: entryway.png caption: recessed entryway graphics)

Cool tones provided additional visual interest, maintained the viewer's focus on legibility, and complimented the branding program's architectural context.

(image: atrium.png caption: branding in gallery atrium)

(image: hallway.png caption: hallway directional aid)

(image: wayfinding.png caption: wayfinding signage)

Visual vocabulary included topographic forms and solid gradient fields that mimicked the wordmark's movement. These elements added depth and enhanced the interdisciplinary metaphor.

(image: print-invitation.png caption: sculptural print invitation)

(image: gallery-guide.png caption: gallery guide & program)

(image: merchandise.png caption: merchandise highlights)

To emulate physical texture and distance, the microsite and iPad directory app introduced black transparencies and blurred, gradient-like imagery.

(image: microsite.png caption: microsite)

(image: app.png caption: iPad app)

It was an honor to have my work displayed across hundreds of square feet—and across from the White House. Tight deadlines proved my ability to excel under pressure, and a broad set of deliverables cultivated my affinity for systems.

Final accountabilities included visual concepting, brand development, invitation design, wayfinding, web development, and iOS development.