Title: Pushbot by Catalytic

----

Keywords: interaction design, workflow management, component libraries 

----

Text: As a task and process management platform for enterprise users, Pushbot necessitated a redesign that visualized the hierarchical relationships between key system objects. In addition, atomic design principles were leveraged to help facilitate the design's implementation as a React-based Storybook. A consumer-grade experience elevates the enterprise product: planting the foundation for user-based growth, and disrupting the RPM and BPM industries. Created alongside Michelle Kwolek, Kat Park, and Jason Kunesh.

(content-image: sketch-v1.png description: AppStructure ideation)

Early designs attempted to streamline the experience by overtly joining various concepts, such as tasks that are always shown as the children of processes.

(content-image: v1-task-list.png description: version 1: task list)

(content-image: v1-task-detail.png description: version 1: task detail)

(content-image: sketch-v2-task-list.png description: task ListItem states)

In this later design system, a DataGrid ListItem forms the foundation, with filtering and sorting broken up into distinct interactions. While elegant on desktop devices and when used with a constrained set of options, the solution had trouble scaling down to mobile and scaling up in complexity.

(content-image: v2-task-list.png description: version 2: task list)

Several pro-level users expressed interest in completing tasks directly within the context of a process, but the concept did not resonate with general users.

(content-image: v2-process-detail.png description: version 2: combined task/process detail)

(content-image: sketch-v2-process-detail.png description: timeline structure)

Alongside these more conventional iterations, an experimental, search-based interface was briefly explored and tested. Users would navigate through the app via raw text entry (to be intelligently interpreted) or the mixing-and-matching of suggested tags: a hybrid command-line GUI.

(content-image: v3-search.png description: version 3: search homepage)

(content-image: v3-search-detail.png description: detail: search builder & recommendations)

(content-image: v3-task-list.png description: version 3: task list)

(content-image: v3-task-detail.png description: version 3: task detail)

Comparing each previous version with both the platform's current state and product roadmap, the design team defined a select set of system requirements, ushering in the synthesis and refinement of a final design.

(content-image: login.png description: final: login, default state)

After logging in, Pushbot presents the user with urgent tasks for them to accomplish, as well as a handy overview of business processes that they are currently involved in. Urgency is determined by priority level, time overdue, and the number of other users affected by a delay. 

(content-image: today.png description: final: "Today" homepage)

(content-image: today-mobile.png description: final: responsive layout, "Today")

(content-image: sidenav-personal.png description: final: SideNav, default state)

Due to the hybrid userbase of taskers and managers, the navigation menu required a split hierarchy. Common, everyday sections are shown by default, whereas advanced platform features require a second interaction.

(content-image: sidenav-organization.png description: final: SideNav, organization expanded)

(content-image: sidenav-detail.png description: detail: SideNav icons)

Notifications emulate the SideNav's behavior, allowing the user to glance at newly assigned work while maintaining their current context.

(content-image: notifications.png description: final: Notifications overlay)

Pushbot consists of three orders of system-level objects: tasks, processes, and templates. On each respective list page, the user may filter and sort using a "Mad Libs"-style toolbar, in addition to switching between default and condensed display modes.

(content-image: task-list.png description: final: task list w/filtering options)

All ListItems, regardless of state or object type, share the same basic structure: their individual usage dictates the correct combination of mini-components.

(content-image: task-list-detail.png description: detail: task ListItem variation)

On each list page, the user may add another object. In this case, they may create a task that exists outside of any other process.

(content-image: new-quick-task.png description: final: adding a quick task)

The condensed ("expert") display mode removes any task instructions, avatars, and iconography. Additionally, if a task has no required fields, a button for immediate completion surfaces.

(content-image: task-list-expert.png description: final: expert mode for tasks)

(content-image: task-list-expert-detail.png description: detail: expert mode ListItem)

Process ListItems build upon the backbone of tasks: they feature a visualization of current progress, highlight the estimated completion date, expose categorization, and link to the parent template.

(content-image: process-list.png description: final: process list)

As the ETA slips farther into the future, the due date moves to the left. Time is expressed as a proportional relationship between each side of the marker.

(content-image: process-list-detail.png description: detail: process forecast visualization)

(content-image: sketch-forecast-visualization.png description: process forecast as a race)

Templates utilize a slightly-modified ListItem grid. This layout evokes ecommerce and can be readily extended into a future public marketplace.

(content-image: template-list.png description: final: template grid)

Digging into an actual task, ListItem components are reused to frame and affirm the user's mental journey. Comments flow above a task detail's InputFields, updating the user on important notes before they get to work.

(content-image: sketch-task-detail-1.png description: basic structural outline)

(content-image: sketch-task-detail-2.png description: refined components)

(content-image: task-detail.png description: final: task detail w/comments expanded)

(content-image: task-detail-comments-detail.png description: detail: comment ListItem)

Beyond the overarching page structures and user flows, a comprehensive library of input types and states was developed.

(content-image: task-detail-fields.png description: final: InputField variations)

(content-image: task-detail-empty.png description: final: empty task state)

Multiple users expressed interest in a dialog that appears following the completion of a task and indicates potential next steps. Here, the user is driven towards completing the next task on their to-do list. As the primary KPI, task completion needed to be constantly encouraged. 

(content-image: task-detail-dialog.png description: final: task completion dialog)

(content-image: task-detail-dialog-detail.png description: detail: dialog actions)

(content-image: task-detail-complete.png description: final: completed task state)

(content-image: sketch-completed-fields.png description: early version of completed state)

(content-image: task-detail-complete-fields-detail.png description: detail: completed fields)

An additional task detail variant was floated around in which the page structure mimicked that of the process detail: heightening the sense of an audit trail and other time-based paradigms.

(content-image: task-detail-alternate-1.png description: alternate: task audit trail, top)

(content-image: task-detail-alternate-2.png description: alternate: task audit trail, bottom)

Within a process detail, the user may filter objects shown on the timeline and reverse the chronological sort.

(content-image: process-detail-1.png description: final: process detail, top)

As the user scrolls deeper into the timeline, the top card condenses and opens up more visual real estate.

(content-image: process-detail-2.png description: final: process detail, scrolled)

(content-image: process-detail-timeline-detail.png description: detail: timeline structure)

(content-image: sketch-process-detail.png description: initial sketches behind the timeline)

Similar to the quick task option available on the task list page, the user may add an impromptu task to an in-flight process. If desired, this change may flow upwards to the template-level and affect all subsequent, related processes. 

(content-image: new-task-in-process.png description: final: adding an in-flight task)

Disclaimer: this work may or may not reflect the current state of Pushbot. It should not be interpreted as an accurate representation of technical product capabilities and/or experiences.