Title: Allstate Roadside Services: Alamo

----

Keywords: web, operations, product iteration

----

Text: Every year, Allstate dispatches over 2 million branded and white-label rescues across the United States and Canada. 7 million phone calls are handled by hundreds of Rescue Associates, who each use two dispatching applications. Alamo’s onboarding to the newer of these two, Omni, shaved over 40% of call time and dramatically reduced complexity across the roadside ecosystem.

(content-image: MMA-service.png description: MMA takes two weeks to learn)

(content-image: Omni-initial.png description: Omni can be mastered in three hours)

After two years of product design and development, Omni had yet to onboard Alamo Rent a Car, one of the last flagship partners still using MMA. Once their spot on the roadmap came up, the team met with internal relationship managers to scope out the development effort.

This discovery session resulted in a series of index cards that recorded potential changes to Omni. Soft services such as tire changes and jumpstarts wouldn’t be an issue, but all signs indicated that tows were a black box of complexity.

To get to the bottom of this, four developers, two designers, and a technical product manager flew to Largo, Florida. A dozen highly-trained RAs handle Alamo calls out of Largo, and observing them would unlock the mysteries of rental car tows. 

(content-image: SME-review.png description: preparing concepts for the trip) 

(content-image: Tampa-Bay.png description: driving across Tampa Bay) 

(content-image: palm-trees.png description: first night in Florida)

At the call center, Omni listened to live calls and witnessed the RAs use MMA, Alamo’s internal Odyssey and NatRes systems, a manual call logger, and a massive Excel spreadsheet. Average call times exceeded 15 minutes: a stark contrast to Omni’s nine-minute average.

(content-image: call-center.png description: call center environment)

(content-image: observation.png description: a customer needs a new vehicle)

(content-image: Alamo-tools.png description: multiple systems in use)

Rachael Forster, my design pair, and I conducted individual research sessions with prototypes for Alamo soft services.

(content-image: interviews.png description: Omni brings a few smiles)

This feedback would inform our two major towing explorations: a flow that determined tow type through a series of questions, and one that required the user to make their own decision.

After returning to Chicago, the designers scheduled eight more in-depth interviews and usability tests with RAs. While the questions-based model maintained design purity, the user-selectable dropdown fit with Alamo’s vernacular and resulted in faster completion times.

(content-image: ideation-probing-questions.mp4 description: probing questions)

(content-image: ideation-dropdown.mp4 description: dropdown selection)

RAs showed particular enthusiasm for the automated drive-in vehicle exchange: a process that they had relied on Excel for, and one that consumed upwards of two minutes.

(content-image: ideation-drive-in-exchange.png description: completed drive-in exchange)

In the final, dropdown-based design, each tow type contained specific probing questions, and the rescue map adjusted to fit the situation. Two-way tows, an operation unique to Alamo, consisted of one tow for the disabled vehicle, and another for the replacement.

(content-image: one-way-tow-questions.png description: one-way tow probing questions)

(content-image: one-way-ride-along-locations.png description: customer ride-along locations)

(content-image: reverse-tow-notification.png description: requesting a replacement vehicle)

(content-image: final-two-way-tow.png description: completed two-way tow)

Onboarding an entire roadside partner allowed me to witness the complexities of legacy software firsthand. Weekly stakeholder check-ins finessed my interpersonal skills, and our constant user interviews brought countless moments of empathy and joy.

One major regret is our continuation of the two-way tow model: third-party software used by tow shops does not handle these elegantly. Did we over-optimize the call center experience at the expense of provider reliability? Would the simplicity of two separate tows have made up for the costs of re-training and re-organization?

(content-image: ARS.png description: you’re in good hands)

Final accountabilities included user research, stakeholder alignment, user experience direction, feature prioritization, and developer support. 