Title: Pushbot by Catalytic

----

Keywords: web, enterprise, product delivery 

----

Text: As a task and process management platform for enterprise users, Pushbot necessitated a consumer-grade redesign that would disrupt the BPM and RPA industries. Atomic design principles were leveraged to help facilitate the design's implementation as a React-based Storybook.

(content-image: appstructure-ideation.png description: AppStructure ideation)

Early designs attempted to streamline the experience by conjoining related objects, such as tasks that were always shown as the children of processes.

(content-image: early-task-list.png description: early task list)

An experimental, search-based interface was briefly explored and tested. Users would navigate via text entry or the mixing-and-matching of tags.

(content-image: search.png description: search homepage)

(content-image: search-detail.png description: search builder & recommended tags)

Following this exploratory phase, the design team aligned all concepts with the product roadmap and business goals. From this, a final design system emerged.

Beginning with login, a card-based structure was adopted.

(content-image: login.png description: login)

After logging in, Pushbot immediately presented users with urgent tasks, as well as processes they were involved in. Urgency was determined by priority level, time remaining, and the number of associated users. 

(content-image: today.png description: urgent tasks & processes)

(content-image: today-mobile.png description: mobile layout)

Due to the hybrid userbase of taskers and managers, the navigation menu required a split hierarchy. Common, everyday sections were shown by default, whereas advanced platform features required a second interaction.

(content-image: sidenav-advanced.png description: advanced view)

(content-image: sidenav-detail.png description: icon system)

Pushbot consisted of three orders of system-level objects: tasks, processes, and templates. On each list page, users could filter and sort using a "Mad Libs" toolbar, in addition to choosing between default and condensed modes.

(content-image: task-list.png description: task list, default)

(content-image: task-list-detail.png description: task ListItems, default)

The condensed ("expert") display mode removed task instructions, avatars, and iconography. Additionally, if a task had no required fields, a button for immediate completion surfaced.

(content-image: task-list-expert.png description: task list, expert)

(content-image: task-list-expert-detail.png description: task ListItems, expert)

Process ListItems featured several unique components: a progress visualization, estimated completion date, process category, and parent template link.

As an ETA slipped farther into the future, the due date moved to the left. Time was expressed as a proportional relationship between each side of the marker.

(content-image: process-list.png description: process list)

(content-image: process-list-detail.png description: process ListItems)

Templates utilized a square ListItem grid. This layout evoked ecommerce and could be readily extended to a future marketplace.

(content-image: template-list.png description: template grid)

Digging into a task detail, ListItem components were reused to frame and affirm the user's journey. Comments flowed above input fields, updating users on important notes before they got to work.

(content-image: task-detail.png description: task detail)

(content-image: task-detail-comments.png description: comments)

(content-image: sketch-task-detail.png description: structural outline)

When a task was completed, users would be prompted with a dialog that surfaced the next tasks in their queue. As a primary KPI, task completion needed to be constantly encouraged. 

(content-image: task-detail-dialog.png description: task completion dialog)

(content-image: task-detail-dialog-detail.png description: dialog actions)

Within a process detail, users could filter timeline elements and reverse the chronological sort.

(content-image: process-detail.png description: process detail)

(content-image: sketch-process-detail.png description: initial timeline sketches)

As users scrolled, the top card condensed and opened up more real estate.

(content-image: process-detail-scrolled.png description: process detail, scrolled)

(content-image: process-detail-timeline.png description: timeline elements)

Working on Pushbot dramatically matured my product development skills. Design systems are the future, and working with a large engineering team provided insight into their needs, processes, and methodologies.

Final accountabilities included component library architecture, component UX/UI, implementation documentation, and developer support.