Title: NEXT 2015

----

Keywords: branding, education, concept delivery

----

Text: Inspired by topography, the *NEXT* 2015 identity expressed both the Corcoran's heritage and journey to come. Individual paths, drawn from the Sierra Nevada landscape of Mount Corcoran, united in one community. The appearance of a fingerprint spoke to the relationship between identity and creation.

### awards
- Adobe Design Achievement Awards, Semifinalist
- Graphis Design Annual, Silver Award
- HOW International Design Awards, Merit Award
- University & College Designers Association, Award of Excellence

(image: keywords.png caption: affinity diagramming)

(image: wordmap.png caption: finalized wordmap)

Set against the backdrop of a merger between the Corcoran and George Washington University, wordmap ideation allowed each junior designer to craft an identity defined by these focal points. 

From three competing options, stakeholders selected my direction. It combined organic movement with technical structure: a synthesis of identities. 

(image: tombstone.png caption: organic forms in classical motifs)

(image: New-York-Ave.png caption: banners at New York Avenue)

(image: entryway.png caption: recessed entryway graphics)

Cool tones provided additional visual interest, maintained the viewer's focus on legibility, and complimented the branding program's architectural context.

(image: atrium.png caption: branding in gallery atrium)

(image: hallway.png caption: hallway directional aid)

(image: wayfinding.png caption: wayfinding signage)

Visual vocabulary included topographic forms and solid gradient fields that mimicked the wordmark's movement. Both elements added depth and dimension, further highlighting an interdisciplinary identity.

(image: print-invitation.png caption: sculptural print invitation)

(image: gallery-guide.png caption: gallery guide & program)

(image: merchandise.png caption: merchandise highlights)

The microsite and iPad map/directory app introduced black transparencies and blurred, gradient-like imagery. These techniques allowed the digital deliverables to emulate physical texture, form, and distance.

(image: microsite.png caption: microsite)

(image: app.png caption: iPad app)

It was an honor to have my work displayed across hundreds of square feet—and across from the White House. Tight deadlines taught me how to excel under pressure, and a broad set of deliverables cultivated my affinity for systems.

Final accountabilities included visual concepting, brand development, invitation design, wayfinding system, web development, and iOS development.