Title: corcoran:Design

----

Keywords: iOS, education, product delivery

----

Text: Showcasing undergraduate 2D design work from the Corcoran School of the Arts & Design, corcoran:Design provided users with a canvas of thumbnails to explore. The highlighted work spanned two majors and four years of instruction. Each individual project contained CDN-hosted images, a brief description, and the student's portfolio link. 

After iOS App Store certification, corcoran:Design was employed by academic recruiters for a one-year period.

(content-image: primary.png description: design disciplines)

(content-image: home.png description: home screen with icon)

(content-image: graphic.png description: modular thumbnail grid)

Thumbnails of varying scale and placement established three levels of hierarchy, while an interwoven grid simultaneously emphasized the cross-functional nature of undergraduate design work.

(content-image: project-shown.png description: extended description)

Besides detailing a project's scope and concept, descriptions contextualized each piece within the broader curriculum. An info page summarized the department's culture and relationship with the global design community.

(content-image: secondary.png description: info & project pages)

(content-image: iPad-motion.png description: responsive structure)

Layouts seamlessly scaled across iPhone and iPad form factors. A collection of continuous gradients unified the interface, representing the diverse array of student backgrounds and areas of specialization. 

(content-image: iPad-info.png description: altered navigation for iPad)

(content-image: iPad-project.png description: optimized real estate)

corcoran:Design was my first foray into balancing user needs, technical limits, and aspirational designs. It deepened my development knowledge, and the iOS concepts that I picked up have informed hundreds of design decisions. 

Final accountabilities included visual concepting, user experience direction, technical architecture, iOS development, and user acceptance testing.