Title: Es ist fertig!

----

Date: 10/3/2017

----

Author: Lucien

----

Thumbnail: papa-und-kind.png

----

Text: After much anticipation, my DB ES64F4 is complete! Bricks arrived from Germany, the Netherlands, and the USA: there were a handful of packaging errors, but none were insurmountable. As a product, Bricklink's Stud.io design, build, export, and buy flow is excellently executed. It is unbelievably easy to create the model of your dreams and physically realize it a week later.

(content-image: packages.png description: the bricks are arriving)

(content-image: initial-bricks.png description: initial batch unboxed)

I love the individual bags and sorting that Bricklink sellers are known for!

(content-image: complete-bricks.png description: complete set of bricks)

(content-image: base-construction.png description: base construction)

(content-image: midway.png description: semi-complete body)

Several design changes were implemented during the build process. These included an extra layer of plates above the single-piece base, bringing the locomotive's height in line with LEGO standards and adding another touch of realism. Additionally, the gray, mid-section notch area was tightened up by adjusting the SNOT (studs-not-on-top) technique.

(content-image: base-revision.png description: adding an additional plate layer)

My enthusiasm for the ES64F4 spans multiple scales! The inspiration for this project came from an N-scale Minitrix model produced by Märklin of Germany.

(content-image: papa-und-kind.png description: "papa und kind")

(content-image: front-lights.png description: front lights)

Both ends utilize Power Functions LEDs to add lighted ambiance and a bit of prototypical functionality.

(content-image: rear-lights.png description: rear lights)

(content-image: internals.png description: internal battery box and wiring)

All power for the motor and lighting comes from a Power Functions battery box. There's plenty of wiring, but also plenty of room for "Lokführer Hans" to man the controls and make sure the goods arrive on time!

(content-image: fuehrerstand.png description: Hans at the "führerstand")